Connecting to a TCP/UDP Port
Netcat can run in either
client or server mode.
We can use client mode to connect
to any TCP or UDP port.
Let’s use Netcat to check if TCP
port 110 is open on a remote machine.
Here, we are supplying
several arguments.
The -n option is used to skip
DNS name resolution
and -v specifies verbose output.
We then specify the destination
IP address and port number.
After pressing Enter, Netcat
tells us several things.
First, the TCP connection to
port 110 succeeded,
so Netcat reports the
remote port as open.
Next, the server responded to our
connection by “talking back to us”.
It printed out the server welcome
message, and prompted us to log in,
which is standard behavior
for POP3 services.
Let’s try to interact with the
server by attempting to
authenticate as the offsec user.
Our login attempt failed but we have
successfully managed to converse
with the POP3 service using Netcat.